> flamingo
---------------------------------- 526 1.322623
  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your 
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm 
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the 
experiment?' 
---------------------------------- 503 1.013693
  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, 
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:  
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches 
are gone from the side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away 
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for 
a little more conversation with her friend. 
---------------------------------- 502 1.009519
  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, 
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one 
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her 
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where 
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up 
into a tree. 
---------------------------------- 487 0.882496
  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no 
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at 
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared, 
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the 
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The 
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and 
no more of it appeared. 
---------------------------------- 482 0.529432
  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her 
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, 
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down, 
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened 
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it 
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a 
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:  
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again, 
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled 
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this, 
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she 
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers 
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the 
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very 
difficult game indeed. 
5 documents retrieved.
